Welcome to adding random nurse with children in this video.
You'll adjust the particle settings to get a more realistic and less uniform hair appearance.
So let's hop straight on over into blender.
Okay so we have our bunny in front of us and I'm just going to switch across to the 3-d view.
Okay.
And let's focus on just one particular part of the bunny at the moment and let's focus on the body itself
so I'm going to turn the other particle systems off.
So it's nice and quick to move around.
Now at the moment our bunny has a very uniform look to it looks very shiny very sleek.
Now tear tends to be quite uniform when it's shorts.
But you still have these stragglers roaming about.
But you can also have tuft's.
I mean hair isn't going to be completely regular as if it has been combed.
Especially on a wild animal.
So we're going to have to add a bit of randomness into that.
So on the part cool properties over here we've got a selection of options under our children.
So moving further down from our display and our renda Settings here the seeds etc..
Long hair.
Well we're not gonna use that because it is relatively short here.
But you would use that option if you approve it.
Perhaps making a lady and you wanted long hair you know going down to the waist line rather than a short
bob or something like that.
Anyway back to this here so klump.
Now this goes from minus 1 to 1.
And when it's set to minus one that means it will clump together at the root.
And in this case it will mean the children clump together round the parent close to the skin and then
radiate out from there when it's set to one it's the other way round it starts further away in clumps
together at the tip of the hairs.
Now this doesn't seem to be working at the moment so let me investigate why it's not working.
Have I come across a bug or have I forgotten something.
Okay so I've just worked out what was going on there why those settings weren't changing for me.
That's just simply because I had the wrong particle system selected here.
So even though the body hair was being viewed I had actually Selecta chest hair.
I've made some changes as I was feeling about so I'm just going to open up the saved file I'd made and
I do suggest at all times you keep a regular save going on.
Let's go back to where we were before now with body hair here.
That's a good learning for us all.
So let's have a look at our bunny and let's let's hide the properties and tool shelf so we can see more
of our lovely body.
Okay so we were talking about the clump of the clump value at negative one clump sit at the base and
at positive one clumps at the end.
Now that I mean that looks a bit silly but might be good for grasses because they tend to clump together
at their roots and then come out from there.
And if you had a wet rabbit it would probably have a clump value of one as hairs do tend to clump together
when they're wet.
And I'm going to render that.
So I want to see if it does in fact look like our bunnies gotten a little soggy.
It does indeed it looks either wet or greasy.
Okay so let's hop background to the 3-d view.
And we probably don't want it clumping together too much but since hairs clumped together naturally
having a little bit of clump does add to this sort of realism of our model.
So looking at the length here well if we set it down to zero it makes them all very short.
And the threshold under neefe Simply tells blender the percentage of hairs that are at this lower value.
So that's good.
If you've got a lot more hairs in here for making sure you've got a variation in hair length.
So if I reduce that ever so slightly and then have the threshold not all the way down here.
Not all the way at the top but somewhere in the middle we get a nice compromise so let's have a short
length and the threshold of ones that like fat quite high.
There.
So partings not going to give us too much of a difference in our model but we can see it does make a
slight difference to the hair itself.
Now uniform the roughness.
These are all roughness settings here.
So we've got the uniform ness of it and it's currently set to zero.
And if we play with extremes here so we just slide that up gradually to one you can see it gets increasingly
more and more scruffy until it goes over one and carries on going.
And that's a very very fluffy bunny.
So this is basically telling blender how disorganized is going to become the size here.
As you can see causes a few ripple effects and gives us the size of the disorder.
So if you imagine the hairs themselves if you had a metre long hair and the size was high it would.
Be disordered.
But it would ripple in a very long ripple.
But if you pull the size back down it causes this disturbance it looks like a ripple at the moment doesn't
it as it's going down but it causes more and more and more kinks in the hair.
It ends up a very scruffy Bunny.
So we render it out whilst it's looking like that it's going to look not like it did before it's actually
going to look like a very rough matted hair as we can see here.
And in fact it does look more matted than the head does.
So we can use that to our advantage as well.
In this case that looks again is gone too far.
I don't think a rabbit would ever have hair that looks like a bristle brush.
So again let's go back to the 3-d VIEW.
We're going to set the uniform here.
I'm going to play with these figures just a little bit and probably make it just a little bit fuzzy
but not much.
Now the end point that changes how the end of the hair the very end of the hair itself is actually being
roughed up.
So it changes the direction of those very end hairs.
So we look towards the end of hairs and I move this.
It deviates them around and you see because there's a lot of children there.
It tends to move everything around at once.
So we've got to be careful about not creating escorts of a wave pattern going on.
Plus we certainly don't want that.
But having a little point there does change it.
How the shape itself determines where on the hair that it starts are actually changing so at zero it's
going to start changing at the base.
And we can see there it's moving the whole hair about.
And if we increase that up is going to change the very very ends of the hairs instead which gives them
again a much more realistic appearance random.
Now this as you can probably guess adds randomness to our model.
The higher we increase the randomness the more scruffy our model will get.
And then we've got to size value.
So if we change the size value that changes how does the same the size on the uniform it changes how
much randomness is across the whole hair so the larger sizes the more the randomness is spread over
the hair rather than lots of little changes in the hair.
So if we change the size all the way down we can see it becomes very very disordered.
However if we change it up it comes more and more back into being uniform.
And of course we want probably a little bit of that in our model as well.
And the threshold of course very similar to the threshold with the length when it's at 100 percent here
or 1 then none of the hairs none of the particles are left untouched by the random rough amount.
But if we decrease that's more and more particles or more and more hairs.
In this case become randomized.
So let's just have a quick look in the rendered image how our bunny is looking.
So it's certainly looking a little more rough around there.
But I do want it to be a little more fluffy.
So we're going to have to experiment with here so I think I need to up the end point disorder and that
set that value perhaps at one and this one at point two.
All that might be a bit fluffy.
So said it appoint one.
And let's go and render again.
Doing this over and over again it's not a bad thing you're going to have to have a look.
And the reason why I'm going straight for the rendered mode rather than viewing it in the viewport is
because if I view it in the viewport I'm not seeing all of the hairs involved.
And we still have this bald patch on our bunny just here so I'm going to go ahead and investigate that
now and see what's going on.
So we're looking at it from here and I can see straightaway that there is a lack of hair around there.
Couple of options that we can do with that because I don't want to have to restyle the bunny just yet.
Let's just see if it's a virtex issue so let's go in select the body.
That's what we're doing.
So we've got that selected.
And let's go into white paint and just add I've assuming I've got ADD turned on.
Yes.
And I'm just going to go in here and add more hair to this area.
It just in case that's not enough.
And see if that covers up half poor rabbits bold spots.
So let's go back to work.
We can just render it now and see if that solve the issue if it hasn't we might have to change some
of the options perhaps just increasing the number of children ever so slightly so that's still not covered.
That area there.
So let's go into the particle options and can we increase the number of children we can I'm going to
try going up to 150 on the final render and seeing if that makes a difference.
So I'm not liking this bald patch.
I thought it would be relatively straightforward to cover it up but it doesn't look like it's being
relatively straightforward.
So this here is getting better now.
However I think the issue may be that the hairs are actually pressed to fight against the rabbitskin
possibly even an Engro or it looks very rough there as well.
So let's see if we can go in and particle it.
Oh we don't want it at length some risks to undo that let's go and comb it and just move it back a little.
That seems to be a quite had a lack here of parents.
This part of our model.
So one of the other things that we can do just to help us with covering up this bald spot in general
seeing a better impression about what's going on if we look over on the tool shelf with the tools tab
selected scroll down we will see children.
And if we put a tick in that we can see how the particles are actually looking in this case the hairs
including the children which is very very useful.
So I'm going to try playing with the seed of children just a little and see if that sorts out are boldness
problem that indeed looks much better.
Brilliant.
Okay guys it's Challenge time.
Id like you to alter the remaining particle groups.
So add some further styling to the rest of the bunny.
So make some of the other hair on my head perhaps make it a little bit more frizzy etc..
It's up to you how you do that of course.
Now make the chest hair and whiskers a different colour.
Now I suggest white in this case when you render it you may find it comes out a little grey.
Don't worry about that.
We'll sort out the colouring in a later lecture.
And finally a little hint for you.
You will need to create another couple of materials underneath the rabbits or bunny mesh.
Pause video now and give that a go.
Okay guys.
Welcome back.
Let's hop straight back over into blender.
Right so the first thing I'm going to do here is just create the materials.
So we need two materials.
I'm going to click this one here and actually select brown fur for both of them.
Now there currently there's three uses of brown fur which you can see one two three.
Now I want to make them unique users so I'm going to click that three and now that three becomes a two.
And I'm going to call that white fluff and I'm going to call this one here whiskers in case the whiskers.
We decide to do something else with later Ron and we go in to set the colour to white.
You can do that quite easily by the way with the hue saturation and value of hue and saturation as nothing.
And the value as one that would be pure white and I'm going to do the same with the white fluff here
arguably I should have made one of them white and then copied that one.
But there we go that's done.
So we need to assign those materials to the appropriate particle systems of the chest down here on render.
We're going to select white fluff and the whiskers we're going to select whiskers.
Perfect So that's all those set up.
Let's have a quick look how that is looking.
Oh dear.
One day I will hop into the right mode you can't render in particle edit mode it doesn't show us our
hairs properly.
So let's see how that's going to come out.
Probably find that they will come out a dark grey which they have done that's not a problem at all we
can sort that out in a bit um just want them to be a different colour at the moment perhaps a little
long.
I will make them shorter so chest it looks like I've edited them at some point.
Let's go into 3D view here.
Oh they're hidden So let's turn them all on so we can see what's happening.
So let's see if we can fluff out this chest area.
Let's try less hairs.
Let's try 400 hairs with a length of point to five.
And let's just try actually fluffing them out.
So if I come down here and uniform point one a bit of randomness in there as well and the end points
let's make the points a bit scruffy.
So that does look a lot more fluffy and I'm happy leaving it like that for the moment.
And the threshold of randomness.
Well let's not make everything random about 40 percent they'll be absolutely fine.
Okay so that's those bits.
They're done let's make the head go up here and again you can spend as much or as little time on this
as you'd like.
I'd like the head to be relatively smooth so I'm going to add in a randomness value of one I want it
to be totally random.
No I want to increase the threshold now so that some of the hairs are completely maybe random of one
is a little too much that's just adjust the size here.
Let's turn the random value down as where a lot of this is a bit of playing as well.
So the larger the size the better it's going to look over ride and there's a still a bit scruffy that's
lower the randomness have the ranton was quite low and the size one that's looking pretty good may have
to read brush.
If I make it to random because you can end up starting to see through your model.
And let's add a few more parents.
I don't know why I just feel like any more parents now we're going to have to go to free edit at this
point and just top that up a little Thousands are going to be too many maybe 15 hundred.
So occasionally you will have to do this back into particle edit and basically brush your rabbit again.
And of course taking the brush around the eyes down here.
Pull that back.
Pull this down here onto the body.
Now depending on how much time you spend doing this will change how your rabbit looks quite significantly
actually because it alters everything it alters the whole feel of your rabbit.
So I'm just here making the hairs go round.
Now you'll notice that when you're brushing you sometimes have to pull around lots because it brushes
relative to where you're viewing from.
Not necessarily where you think it's going.
So if I'm not careful just brushing straight up the rabbit's head here we'll end up with a queef.
But that looks good to me.
Let's see how that renders.
Oh dear I've done it again.
Let's hop into object mode and render that out.
Okay I'm liking the look of that we've got our collard Wisconsin that we can't see at the moment obviously
because there's a background there and looking at the there's a nice sheen to the ears themselves.
The rabbit's head is fluffy enough that's great.
This is all looking really good so far.
How are you guys getting on.
I'd love to see how your rabbit is coming along.
Please share in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.